services/user_management/README.md, before:

# User-Management service
## Features
- authentication (currently only support JWT and JWKS rotation)
- authorization (currently only support user-level)
- Hierarchical user / group management
- user account management
- Role-based access control
- Quota management

## Pre-requisite
| software | version | installation/setup guide |
|-----|-----|-----|
|Python | 3.12.0 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/build_python_from_source.md) |
|MariaDB| 11.2.3 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/mariaDB/server_setup_11.2.md) |
|RabbitMQ| 3.2.4 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/rabbitmq_setup.md) |
|Elasticsearch| 5.6.16 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/ELK_setup.md#elasticsearch) | 
|Logstash| 5.6.16 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/ELK_setup.md#logstash) |
|Kibana| 5.6.16 | N/A |
|pipenv | 2023.12.1 | [see here](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) |
|pip| 24.0 | [see here](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) |
|OpenSSL| 3.1.4 | [see here](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/a/105663/86878) |


## Build
### Virtual Environment
You can create per-project virtual environment using the command:
```bash
PIPENV_VENV_IN_PROJECT=1 pipenv run python -m virtualenv
```
A virtual environment folder `.venv` will be created under the application folder `./user_management`
### Common Python modules
Note in this application the building process on [common python modules](../common/python) is automated , see the `[packages]` section in [`Pipfile`](./Pipfile).

First time to initialize
```shell
pipenv install --dev
```

If you need to modify the `Pipfile` or `pyproject.toml` , update the virtual environment after you are done editing , by the command
```shell
pipenv update  <optional-specific-package>
```

Clean up dependencies in current virtual environment
```shell
pipenv uninstall --all

pipenv uninstall <optional-specific-package>
```

### C extension modules
Manually install it by following command :
```bash
pipenv run pip install ../common/python/c_exts/dist/my_c_extension_lib-0.0.2-xxxxx.whl
```

The package title should be `my-c-extention-lib`. Once you need to remove the extension , run
```bash
pipenv run pip uninstall my-c-extention-lib
```

See [the documentation](../common/python/README.md) for build process.

### Database Migration
#### Avoid unused Django models built in database
- Developers can set `managed = False` to the model class `User` and `Group` in module `django.contrib.auth.models`, this service does not need the 2 Django models.
- Alternatively, developers can manually drop the tables `auth_user` or `auth_group` after they are created.

#### Initial migration
For schema update, use Django migration script
```bash
pipenv run python3 manage.py makemigrations user_management  --settings settings.migration

pipenv run python3 manage.py migrate user_management  <LATEST_MIGRATION_VERSION>  --settings settings.migration  --database site2_dba
```

For initial data setup to the schema, run following script
```bash
pipenv run python3 -m  user_management.init_users
```
which automatically generates default fixture records (which includes default roles, default login users ... etc.) for data migrations in `user_management` application


## Run
### application server
```bash
pipenv run python3 ./manage.py runserver --settings  settings.development  8008 \
    >& ../tmp/log/dev/usermgt_app.log &
```

### RPC consumer
```bash
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE="settings.development" SYS_BASE_PATH="${PWD}/.."  \
    pipenv run  celery --app=ecommerce_common.util  --config=user_management.celeryconfig \
    worker --concurrency 1 --loglevel=INFO  --hostname=usermgt@%h  -E  \
    --logfile=../tmp/log/dev/usermgt_celery.log  &
```
Note:
*  `-Q` is optional, without specifying `-Q`, Celery will enable all queues defined in celery configuration module (e.g. `user_management.celeryconfig`) on initialization.
* `--logfile` is optional
* `--concurrency` indicates number of celery processes to run at OS level, defaults to number of CPU on your host machine


## Test
### Unit Test
```bash
./run_unit_test
```
### Integration Test
```bash
./run_integration_test
```

## Development
### Code Formatter
```bash
pipenv run black  --extend-exclude="src/migrations/.*\.py$"  ./src/ ./tests/  ./settings/
```

### Linter
```bash
pipenv run ruff check  ./src/ ./tests/  ./settings/
```

Commit message:

[user-management] refactor: permission / quota update for remote applications
- collect permissions / quota codes required in other remote
  applications to a single fixture file for data migration

Signed-off-by: T.H. <7197142+metalalive@users.noreply.github.com>

services/user_management/README.md, after:

# User-Management service
## Features
- authentication (currently only support JWT and JWKS rotation)
- authorization (currently only support user-level)
- Hierarchical user / group management
- user account management
- Role-based access control
- Quota management

## Pre-requisite
| software | version | installation/setup guide |
|-----|-----|-----|
|Python | 3.12.0 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/build_python_from_source.md) |
|MariaDB| 11.2.3 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/mariaDB/server_setup_11.2.md) |
|RabbitMQ| 3.2.4 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/rabbitmq_setup.md) |
|pipenv | 2023.12.1 | [see here](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) |
|pip| 24.0 | [see here](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) |
|OpenSSL| 3.1.4 | [see here](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/a/105663/86878) |


## Build
### Virtual Environment
You can create per-project virtual environment using the command:
```bash
PIPENV_VENV_IN_PROJECT=1 pipenv run python -m virtualenv
```
A virtual environment folder `.venv` will be created under the application folder `./user_management`
### Common Python modules
Note in this application the building process on [common python modules](../common/python) is automated , see the `[packages]` section in [`Pipfile`](./Pipfile).

First time to initialize
```shell
pipenv install --dev
```

If you need to modify the `Pipfile` or `pyproject.toml` , update the virtual environment after you are done editing , by the command
```shell
pipenv update  <optional-specific-package>
```

Clean up dependencies in current virtual environment
```shell
pipenv uninstall --all

pipenv uninstall <optional-specific-package>
```

### C extension modules
Manually install it by following command :
```bash
pipenv run pip install ../common/python/c_exts/dist/my_c_extension_lib-0.0.2-xxxxx.whl
```

The package title should be `my-c-extention-lib`. Once you need to remove the extension , run
```bash
pipenv run pip uninstall my-c-extention-lib
```

See [the documentation](../common/python/README.md) for build process.

### Database Migration
#### Avoid unused Django models built in database
- Developers can set `managed = False` to the model class `User` and `Group` in module `django.contrib.auth.models`, this service does not need the 2 Django models.
- Alternatively, developers can manually drop the tables `auth_user` or `auth_group` after they are created.

#### Initial migration
For schema update, use Django migration script
```bash
pipenv run python3 manage.py makemigrations user_management  --settings settings.migration

pipenv run python3 manage.py migrate user_management  <LATEST_MIGRATION_VERSION>  --settings settings.migration  --database site2_dba
```

##### default user setup
For default user setup (staff, superuser) to the schema, run following script
```bash
pipenv run python3 -m  user_management.init_users
```
which automatically generates default fixture records (which includes default roles, default login users ... etc.) for data migrations in `user_management` application.

##### Permissions / quota code setup
Permissions / quota code setup for other remote applications can be done with following command

```bash
pipenv run python3 ./manage.py  loaddata  --database usermgt_service  --settings settings.development
    [-v {0,1,2,3}]  fixture  remoteapps_quota_perm_fixtures.json
```


## Run
### application server
```bash
pipenv run python3 ./manage.py runserver --settings  settings.development  8008 \
    >& ../tmp/log/dev/usermgt_app.log &
```

### RPC consumer
```bash
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE="settings.development" SYS_BASE_PATH="${PWD}/.."  \
    pipenv run  celery --app=ecommerce_common.util  --config=user_management.celeryconfig \
    worker --concurrency 1 --loglevel=INFO  --hostname=usermgt@%h  -E  \
    --logfile=../tmp/log/dev/usermgt_celery.log  &
```
Note:
*  `-Q` is optional, without specifying `-Q`, Celery will enable all queues defined in celery configuration module (e.g. `user_management.celeryconfig`) on initialization.
* `--logfile` is optional
* `--concurrency` indicates number of celery processes to run at OS level, defaults to number of CPU on your host machine


## Test
### Unit Test
```bash
./run_unit_test
```
### Integration Test
```bash
./run_integration_test
```

## Development
### Code Formatter
```bash
pipenv run black  --extend-exclude="src/migrations/.*\.py$"  ./src/ ./tests/  ./settings/
```

### Linter
```bash
pipenv run ruff check  ./src/ ./tests/  ./settings/
```
