services/product/v1.0.1/README.md, before:

# Product service
This service records product item, package, ingredients, and all necessary attributes for individual sellers.

## Important Note
This product application v1.x will be no longer maintained since Oct. 27th 2024

## Pre-requisite
| software | version | installation/setup guide |
|-----|-----|-----|
|Python | 3.12.0 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/build_python_from_source.md) |
|MariaDB| 10.3.22 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/mariaDB_server_setup.md) |
|RabbitMQ| 3.2.4 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/rabbitmq_setup.md) |
|Poetry| 1.6.1 | [see here](https://python-poetry.org/docs) |
|pip| 24.0.0 | [see here](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) |
|OpenSSL| 3.1.4 | [see here](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/a/105663/86878) |


Currently, all the build / test commands are running under `v1.0.1` project folder

## Build
### Dependency update
Update all dependency packages specified in the configuration file `v1.0.1/pyproject.toml`
```bash
poetry update
```
Or update specific dependency, for example :
```bash
poetry update ecommerce-common
```

### Database Migration
```bash
poetry run python3  manage.py  makemigrations  <APP_LABEL>  --settings  settings.migration
poetry run python3  manage.py  migrate  <APP_LABEL>  <LATEST_MIGRATION_VERSION>  --settings  settings.migration  --database site_dba
```
Note `<APP_LABEL>` may be `product` or Django internal application `content_type`


## Run
### application server
```bash
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE="settings.development" poetry run daphne -p 8009 \
    ecommerce_common.util.django.asgi:application  >&  \
    ./tmp/log/dev/product_app.log &
```

### RPC consumer
```bash
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE="settings.development"  SERVICE_BASE_PATH="${PWD}/../.." \
    poetry run celery --app=ecommerce_common.util  --config=product.celeryconfig \
    --workdir ./src  worker --concurrency 1 --loglevel=INFO  --hostname=productmgt@%h \
    -E  --logfile=./tmp/log/dev/productmgt_celery.log  &
```

## Test
### Unit Test
```bash
./product/v1.0.1/run_unit_test
```

### Integration Test
```bash
./product/v1.0.1/run_integration_test
```

## Development
### Code Formatter
```bash
cd ./v1.0.1
poetry run black ./src/ ./settings/ ./tests/
```
### Linter
```bash
cd ./v1.0.1
poetry run ruff check ./src/  ./settings/ ./tests/
```

Commit message:

[product] feature: v2.0 project setup, API endpoints for tag
- in v2.x, the create / update API endpoints only process one single tag
  node at a time.
- for read API, any tag node can be responded with the ancestors or
  descendants

Signed-off-by: T.H <7197142+metalalive@users.noreply.github.com>

services/product/v1.0.1/README.md, after:

# Product service
This service records product item, package, ingredients, and all necessary attributes for individual sellers.

## Important Note
This product application v1.x will be no longer maintained since Oct. 27th 2024

## Pre-requisite
| software | version | installation/setup guide |
|-----|-----|-----|
|Python | 3.12.0 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/build_python_from_source.md) |
|MariaDB| 10.3.22 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/mariaDB_server_setup.md) |
|RabbitMQ| 3.2.4 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/rabbitmq_setup.md) |
|Poetry| 1.6.1 | [see here](https://python-poetry.org/docs) |
|pip| 24.0.0 | [see here](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) |
|OpenSSL| 3.1.4 | [see here](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/a/105663/86878) |


## Build
### Dependency update
Update all dependency packages specified in the configuration file `v1.0.1/pyproject.toml`
```bash
poetry update
```
Or update specific dependency, for example :
```bash
poetry update ecommerce-common
```

### specify local paths to source code packages
It is essential to run `install` command to let virtual environment know the local paths to source code packages
```bash
poetry install
```
After that you should be able to import the packages of the development code
```bash
poetry run python

> import sys
> sys.path
['/PATH/TO/PACKAGE1', '/PATH/TO/PROJ_HOME', '/PATH/TO/PROJ_HOME/src' ....]
> import product
> import settings
>
```

### Database Migration
```bash
poetry run python3  manage.py  makemigrations  <APP_LABEL>  --settings  settings.migration
poetry run python3  manage.py  migrate  <APP_LABEL>  <LATEST_MIGRATION_VERSION>  --settings  settings.migration  --database site_dba
```
Note `<APP_LABEL>` may be `product` or Django internal application `content_type`


## Run
### application server
```bash
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE="settings.development" poetry run daphne -p 8009 \
    ecommerce_common.util.django.asgi:application  >&  \
    ./tmp/log/dev/product_app.log &
```

### RPC consumer
```bash
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE="settings.development"  SERVICE_BASE_PATH="${PWD}/../.." \
    poetry run celery --app=ecommerce_common.util  --config=product.celeryconfig \
    --workdir ./src  worker --concurrency 1 --loglevel=INFO  --hostname=productmgt@%h \
    -E  --logfile=./tmp/log/dev/productmgt_celery.log  &
```

## Test
### Unit Test
```bash
./product/v1.0.1/run_unit_test
```

### Integration Test
```bash
./product/v1.0.1/run_integration_test
```

## Development
### Code Formatter
```bash
cd ./v1.0.1
poetry run black ./src/ ./settings/ ./tests/
```
### Linter
```bash
cd ./v1.0.1
poetry run ruff check ./src/  ./settings/ ./tests/
```
