services/product/v2/README.md, before:

# Product service

## Pre-requisite
| software | version | installation/setup guide |
|-----|-----|-----|
|Python | 3.12.0 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/build_python_from_source.md) |
|Poetry| 1.8.4 | [see here](https://python-poetry.org/docs) |
|pip| 24.3.1 | [see here](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) |

## Build
### Dependency update
Update all dependency packages specified in the configuration file `v1.0.1/pyproject.toml`
```bash
poetry update
```
To update specific dependency downloaded from pip server :
```bash
poetry update <WHATEVER-3RD-PARTY-PACKAGE-NAME>
```

To update local dependency `ecommerce-common` :
- comment the dependency setup in `pyproject.toml`,
- run `poetry update`
- uncomment the dependency setup in `pyproject.toml`,
- run `poetry update` again

These steps does not seem efficient, but it does force the update, if you simply run `poetry update ecommerce-common` with version change, then poetry will internally ignore the update without any hint / warning message.

### specify local paths to source code packages
It is essential to run `install` command to let virtual environment know the local paths to source code packages
```bash
poetry install
```
After that you should be able to import the packages of the development code
```bash
poetry run python

> import sys
> sys.path
['/PATH/TO/PACKAGE1', '/PATH/TO/PROJ_HOME', '/PATH/TO/PROJ_HOME/src' ....]
> import product
> import settings
>
```


## Run
### application server
```bash
APP_SETTINGS="settings.development" poetry run granian --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8009 \
    --interface asgi  product.entry.web:app
```

## Test
```bash
./run_test
```

## Development
### code formatter
```bash
poetry run black ./src/ ./tests/ ./settings/
```

### linter
```bash
poetry run ruff check ./src/ ./tests/ ./settings/
```

Commit message:

[product] feature: set up index mapping on elasticsearch for tag
Signed-off-by: T.H <7197142+metalalive@users.noreply.github.com>

services/product/v2/README.md, after:

# Product service

## Pre-requisite
| software | version | installation/setup guide |
|-----|-----|-----|
|Python | 3.12.0 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/blob/master/build_python_from_source.md) |
|Poetry| 1.8.4 | [see here](https://python-poetry.org/docs) |
|pip| 24.3.1 | [see here](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) |
|Elasticsearch| 5.6.16 | [see here](https://github.com/metalalive/EnvToolSetupJunkBox/tree/master/elasticsearch/5.6) | 

## Build
### Dependency update
Update all dependency packages specified in the configuration file `v1.0.1/pyproject.toml`
```bash
POETRY_EXPERIMENTAL_SYSTEM_GIT_CLIENT='true' poetry update
```
Note
- `POETRY_EXPERIMENTAL_SYSTEM_GIT_CLIENT` is required for current `poetry` version, the CA cert path setup has some unresolved issues between `poetry` and its upstream packages `dulwich`, `urllib3`.


To update specific dependency downloaded from pip server :
```bash
POETRY_EXPERIMENTAL_SYSTEM_GIT_CLIENT='true' poetry update <WHATEVER-3RD-PARTY-PACKAGE-NAME>
```

To update local dependency `ecommerce-common` :
- comment the dependency setup in `pyproject.toml`,
- run `poetry update`
- uncomment the dependency setup in `pyproject.toml`,
- run `poetry update` again

These steps does not seem efficient, but it does force the update, if you simply run `poetry update ecommerce-common` with version change, then poetry will internally ignore the update without any hint / warning message.

### specify local paths to source code packages
It is essential to run `install` command to let virtual environment know the local paths to source code packages
```bash
poetry install
```
After that you should be able to import the packages of the development code
```bash
poetry run python

> import sys
> sys.path
['/PATH/TO/PACKAGE1', '/PATH/TO/PROJ_HOME', '/PATH/TO/PROJ_HOME/src' ....]
> import product
> import settings
>
```

### Data schema migration
ElasticSearch is applied as datastore, the mapping type / fields for each index can be maintained using the tool [elastic curator](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/curator/5.6/about-features.html).
```bash
poetry run curator --config ./settings/elastic_curator.yaml \
    ./src/product/migrations/elastic_curator/*/action_VERSION_NUMBER.yaml
```


## Run
### application server
```bash
APP_SETTINGS="settings.development" poetry run granian --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8009 \
    --interface asgi  product.entry.web:app
```

## Test
```bash
./run_test
```

## Development
### code formatter
```bash
poetry run black ./src/ ./tests/ ./settings/
```

### linter
```bash
poetry run ruff check ./src/ ./tests/ ./settings/
```
