services/common/python/README.md, before:

## Common modules in this project
### Build
For python modules :
```shell
poetry build
```

For experimenal C extension modules :
```shell
poetry run python -m build ./c_exts
```
The package named `my-c-extention-lib` can be used in other project applications of this project, with the top-level package name `c_exts` . 
once you installed this package in another project application, you could verify loading / linking with following command :
```shell
python -c "from c_exts.util import keygen"
```

## Cron Job Consumer
```bash
cd ./services/common/python

DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE="ecommerce_common.util.django.internal_settings" \
    SERVICE_BASE_PATH="${PWD}/../.."  poetry run  celery --workdir ./src \
    --app=ecommerce_common.util  --config=ecommerce_common.util.celeryconfig \
    worker --loglevel=INFO  -n common@%h  --concurrency=2 \
    --logfile=./tmp/log/dev/common_celery.log   -E \
    -Q mailing,periodic_default
```

- celery log file can be switched to `./tmp/log/test` for testing purpose

### Cron Job scheduler (celery beat)
collect all periodic tasks to run (gathered from all services)
```bash
cd ./services/common/python

SERVICE_BASE_PATH="${PWD}/../.." poetry run celery --workdir ./src \
    --app=ecommerce_common.util  --config=ecommerce_common.util.celerybeatconfig \
     beat --loglevel=INFO
```

## Development
### Code Formatter
```bash
poetry run black ./src/
```

Commit message:

[common] refactor : remove unecessary python code, re-org tests
- remove dependency `elasticsearch`
- TODO, for logging data storage, consider alternatives e.g.
  OpenSearch, MeiliSerach, Typesense

Signed-off-by: T.H. <metalalive2008@gmail.com>

services/common/python/README.md, after:

## Common modules in this project
### Build
For python modules :
```bash
poetry build
```

For experimenal C extension modules :
```shell
poetry run python -m build ./c_exts
```
The package named `my-c-extention-lib` can be used in other project applications of this project, with the top-level package name `c_exts` . 
once you installed this package in another project application, you could verify loading / linking with following command :
```shell
python -c "from c_exts.util import keygen"
```

## Cron Job Consumer
```bash
cd ./services/common/python

DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE="ecommerce_common.util.django.internal_settings" \
    SERVICE_BASE_PATH="${PWD}/../.."  poetry run  celery --workdir ./src \
    --app=ecommerce_common.util  --config=ecommerce_common.util.celeryconfig \
    worker --loglevel=INFO  -n common@%h  --concurrency=2 \
    --logfile=./tmp/log/dev/common_celery.log   -E \
    -Q mailing,periodic_default
```

- celery log file can be switched to `./tmp/log/test` for testing purpose

### Cron Job scheduler
collect all periodic tasks to run (gathered from all services)
```bash
cd ./services/common/python

SERVICE_BASE_PATH="${PWD}/../.." poetry run celery --workdir ./src \
    --app=ecommerce_common.util  --config=ecommerce_common.util.celerybeatconfig \
     beat --loglevel=INFO
```

### Test
Install the sourece package `./src` by the command :
```bash
poetry install
```
There will be a package `ecommerce-common` in the virtual environment. You can also uninstall it by :
```bash
poetry run pip uninstall ecommerce-common
```
Run the test cases by the command :
```bash
./run_unit_test
```

## Development
### Code Formatter
```bash
poetry run black ./src/ ./tests/
```
